TRANSCRIPT ANNOTATIONS
Keyword-extracted segments with timestamps for QA pair construction
======================================================================


──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
VIDEO: 3B1B — But what is a Neural Network?
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

  [neuron_mechanics]  failure_mode=semantic_precision  hits=50
  matched keywords: weighted sum, sigmoid, relu, bias, squish, weight

    Block 1  [8:55 → 15:10]
      What dials and knobs should you be able to tweak so that it's expressive
      enough to potentially capture this pattern, or any other pixel pattern, or
      the pattern that several edges can make a loop, and other such things? Well,
      what we'll do is assign a weight to each one of the connections between our
      neuron and the neurons from the first layer. These weights are just numbers.
      Then take all of those activations from the first layer and compute their
      weighted sum according to these weights. I find it helpful to think of these
      weights as being organized into a little grid of their own, and I'm going to
      use green pixels to indicate positive weights, and red pixels to indicate
      negative weights, where the brightness of that pixel is some loose depiction
      of the weight's value. Now if we made the weights associated with almost all
      of the pixels zero except for some positive weights in this region that we
      care about, then taking the weighted sum of all the pixel values really just
      amounts to adding up the values of the pixel just in the region that we care
      about. And if you really wanted to pick up on whether there's an edge here,
      what you might do is have some negative weights associated with the
      surrounding pixels. Then the sum is largest when those middle pixels are
      bright but the surrounding pixels are darker. When you compute a weighted
      sum like this, you might come out with any number, but for this network what
      we want is for activations to be some value between 0 and 1. So a common
      thing to do is to pump this weighted sum into some function that squishes
      the real number line into the range between 0 and 1. And a common function
      that does this is called the sigmoid function, also known as a logistic
      curve. Basically very negative inputs end up close to 0, positive inputs end
      up close to 1, and it just steadily increases around the input 0. So the
      activation of the neuron here is basically a measure of how positive the
      relevant weighted sum is. But maybe it's not that you want the neuron to
      light up when the weighted sum is bigger than 0. Maybe you only want it to
      be active when the sum is bigger than say 10. That is, you want some bias
      for it to be inactive. What we'll do then is just add in some other number
      like negative 10 to this weighted sum before plugging it through the sigmoid
      squishification function. That additional number is called the bias. So the
      weights tell you what pixel pattern this neuron in the second layer is
      picking up on, and the bias tells you how high the weighted sum needs to be
      before the neuron starts getting meaningfully active. And that is just one
      neuron. Every other neuron in this layer is going to be connected to all 784
      pixel neurons from the first layer, and each one of those 784 connections
      has its own weight associated with it. Also, each one has some bias, some
      other number that you add on to the weighted sum before squishing it with
      the sigmoid. And that's a lot to think about! With this hidden layer of 16
      neurons, that's a total of 784 times 16 weights, along with 16 biases. And
      all of that is just the connections from the first layer to the second. The
      connections between the other layers also have a bunch of weights and biases
      associated with them. All said and done, this network has almost exactly
      13,000 total weights and biases. 13,000 knobs and dials that can be tweaked
      and turned to make this network behave in different ways. So when we talk
      about learning, what that's referring to is getting the computer to find a
      valid setting for all of these many many numbers so that it'll actually
      solve the problem at hand. One thought experiment that is at once fun and
      kind of horrifying is to imagine sitting down and setting all of these
      weights and biases by hand, purposefully tweaking the numbers so that the
      second layer picks up on edges, the third layer picks up on patterns, etc. I
      personally find this satisfying rather than just treating the network as a
      total black box, because when the network doesn't perform the way you
      anticipate, if you've built up a little bit of a relationship with what
      those weights and biases actually mean, you have a starting place for
      experimenting with how to change the structure to improve. Or when the
      network does work but not for the reasons you might expect, digging into
      what the weights and biases are doing is a good way to challenge your
      assumptions and really expose the full space of possible solutions. By the
      way, the actual function here is a little cumbersome to write down, don't
      you think? So let me show you a more notationally compact way that these
      connections are represented. This is how you'd see it if you choose to read
      up more about neural networks. Organize all of the activations from one
      layer into a column as a vector. Then organize all of the weights as a
      matrix, where each row of that matrix corresponds to the connections between
      one layer and a particular neuron in the next layer. What that means is that
      taking the weighted sum of the activations in the first layer according to
      these weights corresponds to one of the terms in the matrix vector product
      of everything we have on the left here. By the way, so much of machine
      learning just comes down to having a good grasp of linear algebra, so for
      any of you who want a nice visual understanding for matrices and what matrix
      vector multiplication means, take a look at the series I did on linear
      algebra, especially chapter 3. Back to our expression, instead of talking
      about adding the bias to each one of these values independently, we
      represent it by organizing all those biases into a vector, and adding the
      entire vector to the previous matrix vector product. Then as a final step,
      I'll wrap a sigmoid around the outside here, and what that's supposed to
      represent is that you're going to apply the sigmoid function to each
      specific component of the resulting vector inside. So once you write down
      this weight matrix and these vectors as their own symbols, you can
      communicate the full transition of activations from one layer to the next in
      an extremely tight and neat little expression, and this makes the relevant
      code both a lot simpler and a lot faster, since many libraries optimize the
      heck out of matrix

    Block 2  [15:39 → 16:27]
      Really the entire network is just a function, one that takes in 784 numbers
      as an input and spits out 10 numbers as an output. It's an absurdly
      complicated function, one that involves 13,000 parameters in the forms of
      these weights and biases that pick up on certain patterns, and which
      involves iterating many matrix vector products and the sigmoid
      squishification function, but it's just a function nonetheless. And in a way
      it's kind of reassuring that it looks complicated. I mean if it were any
      simpler, what hope would we have that it could take on the challenge of
      recognizing digits? And how does it take on that challenge? How does this
      network learn the appropriate weights and biases just by looking at data?
      Well that's what I'll show in the next video, and I'll also dig a little
      more into what this particular network we're seeing is really doing. Now is
      the point I suppose I should say subscribe to stay notified

    Block 3  [17:03 → 18:25]
      To close things off here I have with me Lisha Li who did her PhD work on the
      theoretical side of deep learning and who currently works at a venture
      capital firm called Amplify Partners who kindly provided some of the funding
      for this video. So Lisha one thing I think we should quickly bring up is
      this sigmoid function. As I understand it early networks use this to squish
      the relevant weighted sum into that interval between zero and one, you know
      kind of motivated by this biological analogy of neurons either being
      inactive or active. Exactly. But relatively few modern networks actually use
      sigmoid anymore. Yeah. It's kind of old school right? Yeah or rather ReLU
      seems to be much easier to train. And ReLU, ReLU stands for rectified linear
      unit? Yes it's this kind of function where you're just taking a max of zero
      and a where a is given by what you were explaining in the video and what
      this was sort of motivated from I think was a partially by a biological
      analogy with how neurons would either be activated or not. And so if it
      passes a certain threshold it would be the identity function but if it did
      not then it would just not be activated so it'd be zero so it's kind of a
      simplification. Using sigmoids didn't help training or it was very difficult
      to train at some point and people just tried ReLU and it happened to work
      very well for these incredibly deep neural networks. All right thank you
      Lisha.


  [attention_mechanism]  failure_mode=multi_hop  hits=7
  matched keywords: value

    Block 1  [0:14 → 0:32]
      And I want you to take a moment to appreciate how crazy it is that brains
      can do this so effortlessly. I mean, this, this and this are also
      recognizable as 3s, even though the specific values of each pixel is very
      different from one image to the next. The particular light-sensitive cells
      in your eye that are firing when you see this 3 are very different from the
      ones firing when you see this 3.

    Block 2  [3:00 → 3:28]
      It's really not more than that. For example the network starts with a bunch
      of neurons corresponding to each of the 28x28 pixels of the input image,
      which is 784 neurons in total. Each one of these holds a number that
      represents the grayscale value of the corresponding pixel, ranging from 0
      for black pixels up to 1 for white pixels. This number inside the neuron is
      called its activation, and the image you might have in mind here is that
      each neuron is lit up when its

    Block 3  [9:27 → 10:32]
      I find it helpful to think of these weights as being organized into a little
      grid of their own, and I'm going to use green pixels to indicate positive
      weights, and red pixels to indicate negative weights, where the brightness
      of that pixel is some loose depiction of the weight's value. Now if we made
      the weights associated with almost all of the pixels zero except for some
      positive weights in this region that we care about, then taking the weighted
      sum of all the pixel values really just amounts to adding up the values of
      the pixel just in the region that we care about. And if you really wanted to
      pick up on whether there's an edge here, what you might do is have some
      negative weights associated with the surrounding pixels. Then the sum is
      largest when those middle pixels are bright but the surrounding pixels are
      darker. When you compute a weighted sum like this, you might come out with
      any number, but for this network what we want is for activations to be some
      value between 0 and 1. So a common thing to do is to pump this weighted sum
      into some function that squishes the real number line into the range between
      0 and 1. And a common function that does this is called the sigmoid
      function,

    Block 4  [14:21 → 14:46]
      understanding for matrices and what matrix vector multiplication means, take
      a look at the series I did on linear algebra, especially chapter 3. Back to
      our expression, instead of talking about adding the bias to each one of
      these values independently, we represent it by organizing all those biases
      into a vector, and adding the entire vector to the previous matrix vector
      product. Then as a final step, I'll wrap a sigmoid around the outside here,
      and what that's supposed to represent is that you're going to apply the


  [layers_and_architecture]  failure_mode=semantic_precision  hits=11
  matched keywords: input layer, 16 neuron, 784, output layer, hidden layer

    Block 1  [2:58 → 4:24]
      specifically a number between 0 and 1. It's really not more than that. For
      example the network starts with a bunch of neurons corresponding to each of
      the 28x28 pixels of the input image, which is 784 neurons in total. Each one
      of these holds a number that represents the grayscale value of the
      corresponding pixel, ranging from 0 for black pixels up to 1 for white
      pixels. This number inside the neuron is called its activation, and the
      image you might have in mind here is that each neuron is lit up when its
      activation is a high number. So all of these 784 neurons make up the first
      layer of our network. Now jumping over to the last layer, this has 10
      neurons, each representing one of the digits. The activation in these
      neurons, again some number that's between 0 and 1, represents how much the
      system thinks that a given image corresponds with a given digit. There's
      also a couple layers in between called the hidden layers, which for the time
      being should just be a giant question mark for how on earth this process of
      recognizing digits is going to be handled. In this network I chose two
      hidden layers, each one with 16 neurons, and admittedly that's kind of an
      arbitrary choice. To be honest I chose two layers based on how I want to
      motivate the structure in just a moment, and 16, well that was just a nice
      number to fit on the screen.

    Block 2  [4:53 → 5:36]
      some groups of neurons firing cause certain others to fire. Now the network
      I'm showing here has already been trained to recognize digits, and let me
      show you what I mean by that. It means if you feed in an image, lighting up
      all 784 neurons of the input layer according to the brightness of each pixel
      in the image, that pattern of activations causes some very specific pattern
      in the next layer which causes some pattern in the one after it, which
      finally gives some pattern in the output layer. And the brightest neuron of
      that output layer is the network's choice, so to speak, for what digit this
      image represents. And before jumping into the math for how one layer
      influences the next, or how training works, let's just talk about why it's
      even reasonable

    Block 3  [11:31 → 12:12]
      sum needs to be before the neuron starts getting meaningfully active. And
      that is just one neuron. Every other neuron in this layer is going to be
      connected to all 784 pixel neurons from the first layer, and each one of
      those 784 connections has its own weight associated with it. Also, each one
      has some bias, some other number that you add on to the weighted sum before
      squishing it with the sigmoid. And that's a lot to think about! With this
      hidden layer of 16 neurons, that's a total of 784 times 16 weights, along
      with 16 biases. And all of that is just the connections from the first layer
      to the second. The connections between the other layers also have

    Block 4  [15:31 → 15:55]
      one that takes in the outputs of all the neurons in the previous layer and
      spits out a number between 0 and 1. Really the entire network is just a
      function, one that takes in 784 numbers as an input and spits out 10 numbers
      as an output. It's an absurdly complicated function, one that involves
      13,000 parameters in the forms of these weights and biases that pick up on
      certain patterns, and which involves iterating many matrix vector products
      and the sigmoid


  SUMMARY for v1_neural_network:
    neuron_mechanics               → 50 hits, 3 blocks
    attention_mechanism            → 7 hits, 4 blocks
    layers_and_architecture        → 11 hits, 4 blocks

──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
VIDEO: 3B1B — Transformers, the tech behind LLMs
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

  [neuron_mechanics]  failure_mode=semantic_precision  hits=21
  matched keywords: weighted sum, dot product, weight

    Block 1  [10:04 → 11:17]
      array of real numbers, until you get to a final layer which you consider the
      output. For example, the final layer in our text processing model is a list
      of numbers representing the probability distribution for all possible next
      tokens. In deep learning, these model parameters are almost always referred
      to as weights, and this is because a key feature of these models is that the
      only way these parameters interact with the data being processed is through
      weighted sums. You also sprinkle some non-linear functions throughout, but
      they won't depend on parameters. Typically, though, instead of seeing the
      weighted sums all naked and written out explicitly like this, you'll instead
      find them packaged together as various components in a matrix vector
      product. It amounts to saying the same thing, if you think back to how
      matrix vector multiplication works, each component in the output looks like
      a weighted sum. It's just often conceptually cleaner for you and me to think
      about matrices that are filled with tunable parameters that transform
      vectors that are drawn from the data being processed. For example, those 175
      billion weights in GPT-3 are organized into just under 28,000 distinct
      matrices. Those matrices in turn fall into eight different categories, and
      what you and I are going to do is step through each one of those categories
      to

    Block 2  [11:53 → 12:22]
      almost all of the actual computation looks like matrix vector
      multiplication. There's a little bit of a risk getting lost in the sea of
      billions of numbers, but you should draw a very sharp distinction in your
      mind between the weights of the model, which I'll always color in blue or
      red, and the data being processed, which I'll always color in gray. The
      weights are the actual brains, they are the things learned during training,
      and they determine how it behaves. The data being processed simply encodes
      whatever specific input is fed into the model for a given run, like an
      example snippet of text.

    Block 3  [14:08 → 14:33]
      embeddings that a simple model is giving me, I'm going to do an analogous
      thing by choosing a three-dimensional slice through this very high
      dimensional space, and projecting the word vectors down onto that and
      displaying the results. The big idea here is that as a model tweaks and
      tunes its weights to determine how exactly words get embedded as vectors
      during training, it tends to settle on a set of embeddings where directions
      in the space have a kind of semantic meaning.

    Block 4  [16:27 → 17:06]
      Also in playing this game of finding nearest neighbors, I was very pleased
      to see how close cat was to both beast and monster. One bit of mathematical
      intuition that's helpful to have in mind, especially for the next chapter,
      is how the dot product of two vectors can be thought of as a way to measure
      how well they align. Computationally, dot products involve multiplying all
      the corresponding components and then adding the results, which is good,
      since so much of our computation has to look like weighted sums.
      Geometrically, the dot product is positive when vectors point in similar
      directions, it's zero if they're perpendicular, and it's negative whenever
      they point in opposite directions. For example, let's say you were playing
      with this model,

    Block 5  [17:14 → 18:25]
      plurality direction in this space. To test this, I'm going to take this
      vector and compute its dot product against the embeddings of certain
      singular nouns, and compare it to the dot products with the corresponding
      plural nouns. If you play around with this, you'll notice that the plural
      ones do indeed seem to consistently give higher values than the singular
      ones, indicating that they align more with this direction. It's also fun how
      if you take this dot product with the embeddings of the words one, two,
      three, and so on, they give increasing values, so it's as if we can
      quantitatively measure how plural the model finds a given word. Again, the
      specifics for how words get embedded is learned using data. This embedding
      matrix, whose columns tell us what happens to each word, is the first pile
      of weights in our model. Using the GPT-3 numbers, the vocabulary size
      specifically is 50,257, and again, technically this consists not of words
      per se, but of tokens. The embedding dimension is 12,288, and multiplying
      those tells us this consists of about 617 million weights. Let's go ahead
      and add this to a running tally, remembering that by the end we should count
      up to 175 billion. In the case of transformers, you really want to think of
      the vectors

    Block 6  [21:40 → 21:59]
      There's a lot more to be said about training later on, but I just want to
      call that out right now. This matrix is called the Unembedding matrix and we
      give it the label WU. Again, like all the weight matrices we see, its
      entries begin at random, but they are learned during the training process.
      Keeping score on our total parameter count, this Unembedding matrix has one
      row for each word in the vocabulary,

    Block 7  [23:37 → 24:37]
      so if you were sampling from it you'd almost certainly just be picking the
      maximizing input. But it's softer than just picking the max in the sense
      that when other values are similarly large, they also get meaningful weight
      in the distribution, and everything changes continuously as you continuously
      vary the inputs. In some situations, like when ChatGPT is using this
      distribution to create a next word, there's room for a little bit of extra
      fun by adding a little extra spice into this function, with a constant T
      thrown into the denominator of those exponents. We call it the temperature,
      since it vaguely resembles the role of temperature in certain thermodynamics
      equations, and the effect is that when T is larger, you give more weight to
      the lower values, meaning the distribution is a little bit more uniform, and
      if T is smaller, then the bigger values will dominate more aggressively,
      where in the extreme, setting T equal to zero means all of the weight goes
      to maximum value. For example, I'll have GPT-3 generate a story with the
      seed text, "once upon a time there was A", but I'll use different
      temperatures in each case.

    Block 8  [26:03 → 26:27]
      A lot of the goal with this chapter was to lay the foundations for
      understanding the attention mechanism, Karate Kid wax-on-wax-off style. You
      see, if you have a strong intuition for word embeddings, for softmax, for
      how dot products measure similarity, and also the underlying premise that
      most of the calculations have to look like matrix multiplication with
      matrices full of tunable parameters, then understanding the attention
      mechanism, this cornerstone piece in the whole modern boom in AI, should be
      relatively smooth.


  [backprop_gradient]  failure_mode=negation_misconception  hits=2
  matched keywords: derivative, backprop

    Block 1  [9:10 → 9:30]
      Deep learning describes a class of models that in the last couple decades
      have proven to scale remarkably well. What unifies them is that they all use
      the same training algorithm, it's called backpropagation, we talked about it
      in previous chapters, and the context that I want you to have as we go in is
      that in order for this training algorithm to work well at scale, these
      models have to follow a certain specific format.

    Block 2  [24:33 → 24:58]
      For example, I'll have GPT-3 generate a story with the seed text, "once upon
      a time there was A", but I'll use different temperatures in each case.
      Temperature zero means that it always goes with the most predictable word,
      and what you get ends up being a trite derivative of Goldilocks. A higher
      temperature gives it a chance to choose less likely words, but it comes with
      a risk. In this case, the story starts out more originally,


  [attention_mechanism]  failure_mode=multi_hop  hits=18
  matched keywords: key, value

    Block 1  [0:09 → 0:31]
      Pretrained refers to how the model went through a process of learning from a
      massive amount of data, and the prefix insinuates that there's more room to
      fine-tune it on specific tasks with additional training. But the last word,
      that's the real key piece. A transformer is a specific kind of neural
      network, a machine learning model, and it's the core invention underlying
      the current boom in AI. What I want to do with this video and the following
      chapters is go through a

    Block 2  [3:53 → 4:12]
      close to each other in that space. This sequence of vectors then passes
      through an operation that's known as an attention block, and this allows the
      vectors to talk to each other and pass information back and forth to update
      their values. For example, the meaning of the word model in the phrase "a
      machine learning model" is different from its meaning in the phrase "a
      fashion model". The attention block is what's responsible for figuring out
      which

    Block 3  [8:05 → 8:27]
      instead you set up a very flexible structure with tunable parameters, like a
      bunch of knobs and dials, and then, somehow, you use many examples of what
      the output should look like for a given input to tweak and tune the values
      of those parameters to mimic this behavior. For example, maybe the simplest
      form of machine learning is linear regression, where your inputs and outputs
      are each single numbers, something like the square footage of a house and
      its price,

    Block 4  [10:09 → 10:32]
      For example, the final layer in our text processing model is a list of
      numbers representing the probability distribution for all possible next
      tokens. In deep learning, these model parameters are almost always referred
      to as weights, and this is because a key feature of these models is that the
      only way these parameters interact with the data being processed is through
      weighted sums. You also sprinkle some non-linear functions throughout, but
      they won't depend on parameters.

    Block 5  [13:03 → 13:30]
      known as the embedding matrix, has a single column for each one of these
      words. These columns are what determines what vector each word turns into in
      that first step. We label it W_E, and like all the matrices we see, its
      values begin random, but they're going to be learned based on data. Turning
      words into vectors was common practice in machine learning long before
      transformers, but it's a little weird if you've never seen it before, and it
      sets the foundation for everything that follows,

    Block 6  [17:20 → 17:54]
      product against the embeddings of certain singular nouns, and compare it to
      the dot products with the corresponding plural nouns. If you play around
      with this, you'll notice that the plural ones do indeed seem to consistently
      give higher values than the singular ones, indicating that they align more
      with this direction. It's also fun how if you take this dot product with the
      embeddings of the words one, two, three, and so on, they give increasing
      values, so it's as if we can quantitatively measure how plural the model
      finds a given word. Again, the specifics for how words get embedded is
      learned using data. This embedding matrix, whose columns tell us what
      happens to each word,

    Block 7  [20:51 → 21:15]
      of Harry Potter would presumably assign a high number to the word Snape.
      This involves two different steps. The first one is to use another matrix
      that maps the very last vector in that context to a list of 50,000 values,
      one for each token in the vocabulary. Then there's a function that
      normalizes this into a probability distribution, it's called softmax and
      we'll talk more about it in just a second, but before that it might seem a
      little bit weird to only use this last embedding

    Block 8  [22:26 → 23:55]
      since it makes another appearance for us once we dive into the attention
      blocks. The idea is that if you want a sequence of numbers to act as a
      probability distribution, say a distribution over all possible next words,
      then each value has to be between 0 and 1, and you also need all of them to
      add up to 1. However, if you're playing the deep learning game where
      everything you do looks like matrix-vector multiplication, the outputs you
      get by default don't abide by this at all. The values are often negative, or
      much bigger than 1, and they almost certainly don't add up to 1. Softmax is
      the standard way to turn an arbitrary list of numbers into a valid
      distribution in such a way that the largest values end up closest to 1, and
      the smaller values end up very close to 0. That's all you really need to
      know. But if you're curious, the way it works is to first raise e to the
      power of each of the numbers, which means you now have a list of positive
      values, and then you can take the sum of all those positive values and
      divide each term by that sum, which normalizes it into a list that adds up
      to 1. You'll notice that if one of the numbers in the input is meaningfully
      bigger than the rest, then in the output the corresponding term dominates
      the distribution, so if you were sampling from it you'd almost certainly
      just be picking the maximizing input. But it's softer than just picking the
      max in the sense that when other values are similarly large, they also get
      meaningful weight in the distribution, and everything changes continuously
      as you continuously vary the inputs. In some situations, like when ChatGPT
      is using this distribution to create a next word,

    Block 9  [24:04 → 24:43]
      function, with a constant T thrown into the denominator of those exponents.
      We call it the temperature, since it vaguely resembles the role of
      temperature in certain thermodynamics equations, and the effect is that when
      T is larger, you give more weight to the lower values, meaning the
      distribution is a little bit more uniform, and if T is smaller, then the
      bigger values will dominate more aggressively, where in the extreme, setting
      T equal to zero means all of the weight goes to maximum value. For example,
      I'll have GPT-3 generate a story with the seed text, "once upon a time there
      was A", but I'll use different temperatures in each case. Temperature zero
      means that it always goes with the most predictable word,


  [ml_dl_taxonomy]  failure_mode=taxonomy  hits=2
  matched keywords: machine learning is

    Block 1  [7:44 → 8:30]
      or our example of predicting the next word given a passage of text, or any
      other task that seems to require some element of intuition and pattern
      recognition. We almost take this for granted these days, but the idea with
      machine learning is that rather than trying to explicitly define a procedure
      for how to do that task in code, which is what people would have done in the
      earliest days of AI, instead you set up a very flexible structure with
      tunable parameters, like a bunch of knobs and dials, and then, somehow, you
      use many examples of what the output should look like for a given input to
      tweak and tune the values of those parameters to mimic this behavior. For
      example, maybe the simplest form of machine learning is linear regression,
      where your inputs and outputs are each single numbers, something like the
      square footage of a house and its price, and what you want is to find a line
      of best fit through this data, you know,


  [positional_encoding]  failure_mode=multi_hop  hits=1
  matched keywords: position of

    Block 1  [18:20 → 18:43]
      remembering that by the end we should count up to 175 billion. In the case
      of transformers, you really want to think of the vectors in this embedding
      space as not merely representing individual words. For one thing, they also
      encode information about the position of that word, which we'll talk about
      later, but more importantly, you should think of them as having the capacity
      to soak in context. A vector that started its life as the embedding of the
      word king, for example,


  SUMMARY for v2_transformers:
    neuron_mechanics               → 21 hits, 8 blocks
    backprop_gradient              → 2 hits, 2 blocks
    attention_mechanism            → 18 hits, 9 blocks
    ml_dl_taxonomy                 → 2 hits, 1 blocks
    positional_encoding            → 1 hits, 1 blocks

──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
VIDEO: CampusX — What is Deep Learning? (Hindi)
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

  [neuron_mechanics]  failure_mode=semantic_precision  hits=5
  matched keywords: weight

    Block 1  [6:04 → 6:24]
      perceptron , all the circles you can see are perceptrons and these are
      connected to each other, are foreign tours and these are arrows, these are
      called weight , they are called weights , okay, and I call them layers,
      these are all the layers , which in one line will save them from all the
      problems,

    Block 2  [59:30 → 59:53]
      is all the notes from all the circles, this is basically is a fundamental
      unit of your N and is the second, this is which these are called weights.
      these weights tell which notes are connected to notes. Okay, now that these
      two can be created in different ways. means a different neural कि इन दोनों
      को अलग-अलग तरीके से आप

    Block 3  [1:00:32 → 1:00:46]
      TYPE OF NOTE IN THE CHEST LIKE PERCEPTRON IS THERE IS SOME MORE TURN THERE
      ARE SOME MORE TURN IN ARYA OK SIMILARLY WEIGHTS CAN ALSO BE CONNECTED IN
      DIFFERENT WAYS SO DEPENDING ON THE PROBLEM YOU CAN CREATE DIFFERENT Neural
      Network Architecture with


  [attention_mechanism]  failure_mode=multi_hop  hits=2
  matched keywords: key, value

    Block 1  [15:06 → 15:25]
      representations made after deduction and classification from Noida this
      replacement alsiser engineering channel vastu sammat into brothels inside
      free key and used to perform a specific pass torsion you easy year explain
      So, if you have done even a little work on setting up a machine, then you
      would know that there is a thing called

    Block 2  [31:43 → 31:59]
      If the train is stopped then there are two basins' w and Bablu w and details
      are being told about this feature of and its w. Now on the basis of this w1
      and value of w, I can tell which feature is more important and which feature
      is less important. Okay, so if tomorrow some child asks , tell me. Why


  [feature_engineering]  failure_mode=contrast  hits=9
  matched keywords: representation learning, manual feature, feature extract

    Block 1  [14:19 → 15:06]
      comes under Machine Learning and Artificial Neural Networks are sent over
      but here there is a center and an award written and is written, today
      representation learning is fine so according to this definition deep
      learning does do representation learning or does depend on it 9th question
      this Kiwi What is presentation learning? Okay, suit Rashmi, if you want to
      enter the degree in , then you should understand representation learning to
      . I will show you in fact . 200 This is the Wikipedia page of representation
      learning. Okay, so here it is written for you in machine learning feature
      learning and Representation learning both are same thing setup it technique
      date alarms and system to automatically discover representations made after
      deduction and

    Block 2  [15:56 → 16:15]
      whether it has a dog, or a cat. If you go to solve this problem through
      machine learning, then you will have to create manual features. How can
      teachers be like size is a feature that if the size is big then it is a dog
      if it is a size then it is a cat ok color

    Block 3  [16:48 → 17:04]
      features, right on your intelligence, so this is called goes to the middle
      of the presentation where automatic feature extraction takes place in your .
      If the problem is fine with your data then this is one more thing to
      understand and further we will discuss on that there is no need of

    Block 4  [19:03 → 19:20]
      last, so this is the definition that is explaining to you two things, again
      I will cover first deep learning users representation learning which means
      that was extracting features. The burden of doing is not on you, the machine
      will do it automatically. The algorithm is doing it automatically. From the
      second topper definition, you learned how

    Block 5  [25:35 → 25:54]
      ok benefit point feature selection is Discussed Positively About the Point
      is We Discussed That Shabby Thing Called Representation Learning A That we
      just did the first 10 where we learned that deep learning algorithms


  [ml_dl_taxonomy]  failure_mode=taxonomy  hits=22
  matched keywords: deep learning is, umbrella, artificial intelligence, machine learning is

    Block 1  [2:20 → 2:39]
      , so our first definition of will be on your screen. It is on where it is
      written Deep Learning Apps Now Field of Artificial Intelligence and Machine
      Learning is inspired by the Structure of Human Brain Ok Full Slip Learning
      Algorithms Attempt to Drops Similar Confusion and Human

    Block 2  [2:48 → 3:19]
      Network Okay so 2 parts definition let's break down let's focus on the slice
      if it is first time SIM It is understood that is that deep learning is back
      here and Machine Learning is okay that Dry diagram will help you, put in
      this program that , it is also written that the biggest umbrella is time,
      under which everything comes, that is Artificial Intelligence, right, is
      Artificial Intelligence, what is this , basically we humans have also
      discovered it, where , we want to make intelligent machines like us, , we
      people have been working behind this for years,

    Block 3  [3:50 → 4:08]
      and the output is , then your machine learning algorithm. work is to figure
      out the relationship between input and output. So machine learning is a soft
      side of the dough now. तो मशीन लर्निंग ए सॉफ्ट डौ की साइड अब What is dip
      learning for us? This obscene dance is machine learning where you do all the
      things

    Block 4  [11:39 → 12:05]
      , defeating him four times in 5 games. Okay, and , there are also many types
      of schedules where , you will see that the state-of-the-art art form of deep
      learning is coming. There are more tumors send exports he is leaving them
      behind ok short dresses switch to battery saver mode Deep learning is
      getting so much tension in today's date has been in the software committee
      computer science minutes if it is ok then you will see a lot of examples

    Block 5  [13:03 → 13:17]
      . Okay, so much more than this, then is a reputation builder app for
      learning. Okay, . So I hope you have got a little introduction to . You have
      understood what deep learning is. Now is free. Let's move a little further.
      In this video , I am , I am

    Block 6  [13:24 → 13:40]
      , which is very common with definition, does not want to ask, lightly
      technical definition and definition is on the screen, is written here that
      deep learning is a part of a broad family for machine learning method, which
      is a data artificial . Neural Networks with Representations

    Block 7  [16:15 → 16:35]
      if it is a size then it is a cat ok color candy feature and whatever
      physical attributes all these features can be made but you have to
      understand this thing, we have to understand that machine learning is
      features, you have to create and give your machine learning algorithm but
      what happens in deep learning This entire process is

    Block 8  [20:03 → 20:19]
      next discuss what is the point between deep learning and machine learning,
      so now is the difference, at this point we only know that is that deep
      learning is all about the field of machine writing. For machine learning
      algorithms, there is . Even the sages do their work in by using tactical
      techniques. The

    Block 9  [33:43 → 33:58]
      , if we have been working at such a time, here we have to tell this along
      with the result, why we reached him on the website that deep learning is not
      a good choice, okay, you know four-five things IS , after reading and
      understanding these four-five things , now you will reach a computer that
      the machine cannot replace

    Block 10  [34:11 → 34:41]
      कि डिफरेंट मगर इतना अच्छा है पावरफुल हैं So, Tuesday of learning in every
      project, the result is that is that in some things, machine learning is also
      better than planning and you must have heard an old saying that where needle
      is needed, is not a sword, then the same thing is , machine learning is the
      needle and deep learning is the sword, now your purse is to sew clothes or
      is to kill people. Depending on the people will know that you need

    Block 11  [37:21 → 37:44]
      डेटा सेट है था उसे जरा भी डेटा सेट है तो आप इसके ऊपर You can belt a model by
      training but not with deep learning Deep learning is needed is worth lakhs
      of rupees only then it will work Now the good thing is that around 120 12
      revolutions came in our society

    Block 12  [43:29 → 44:04]
      and after coming from this data, what happened is that research on has
      become very easy, , because it was not within the power of everyone to make
      it from the data, then if you ask him that in today's rate, deep learning is
      so powerful . Why is it the biggest reason? Biggest Contributor from Data to
      Bigg Boss Without Data Ruby Doesn't Know Deep Learning बड़ा कॉन्ट्रीब्यूटर
      डाटा से Bigg Boss विदाउट डाटा दे रूबी डोंट नो डीप लर्निंग So according to
      me, the biggest second chapter in to push deep learning is Hardware Hardware
      means computing stack Okay, so to explain this entire region , first of all
      I will explain it to you

    Block 13  [50:29 → 50:44]
      device on which you can do calculations . Similarly, in today's date, many
      applications of have started coming in smart phones where machine learning
      is used. This is what planning is used for, then there is an entry for
      energy. These are further called Neural Processing Unit. Neural

    Block 14  [52:46 → 53:03]
      is the ticket to the office Overall the research that is will be fast Ok so
      hard ware is the second chapter According to me, the third factor in which
      deep learning is given the most importance in is the framework and library,
      its development is fine Look, training deep learning models


  [layers_and_architecture]  failure_mode=semantic_precision  hits=3
  matched keywords: output layer, input layer

    Block 1  [6:38 → 6:56]
      , I have given the description in front of you like a child, now in the
      layer , the place from where you get support, you call input layer and the
      place from where you get freedom, you call it output layer, now you can add
      any number in between. There are two here but you can add any number यहां पर
      दो है बट आप कितने भी ऐड कर सकते Yes, these are called freedom layers, okay

    Block 2  [19:20 → 19:35]
      topper definition, you learned how works. The way works is that you tell in
      the input layer and then come through the Hayden lace. When you start
      editing , then put at the beginning, select this trend and . The latter is
      the difference that extracts the root of your


  SUMMARY for v3_deep_learning_hi:
    neuron_mechanics               → 5 hits, 3 blocks
    attention_mechanism            → 2 hits, 2 blocks
    feature_engineering            → 9 hits, 5 blocks
    ml_dl_taxonomy                 → 22 hits, 14 blocks
    layers_and_architecture        → 3 hits, 2 blocks

──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
VIDEO: CodeWithHarry — All About ML & Deep Learning (Hindi)
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

  [backprop_gradient]  failure_mode=negation_misconception  hits=4
  matched keywords: loss function, minimize, gradient

    Block 1  [11:39 → 11:53]
      is being done so the function is very simple Let's do artificial new
      networks. Basically approximates a function. Repeatedly we feed the data
      with it and minimize the error. We call this process training . Now we have
      feed forward neural networks. We have methods of backward propagation. Then
      there are also different types of neural

    Block 2  [12:15 → 12:30]
      आर एन एन रिकरेंट न्यूरल नेटवर्क उसी के सा सा एलएसटीएम होते हैं लॉन्ग शॉर्ट
      टर्म मेमोरी वाले न्यूरल नेटवर्क्स इनको लंगर Sequences and vanishing gradient
      has been created to solve the problem. I had made a video long ago in which
      I had talked about the vanishing gradient problem. What is ? So you guys can
      watch it. Long ago, I had posted those videos on machine learning on . So if
      you guys are interested, then you can watch them again and watch them again.
      I have made a lot of videos on

    Block 3  [13:28 → 13:39]
      people should know every single thing that you are getting mathematics, you
      people are saying loss function is this so I should remember loss function
      you have a complete architecture which is in Python. should not come from
      scratch, you guys learn, you guys keep the information, , keep the
      information, how your neural


  [attention_mechanism]  failure_mode=multi_hop  hits=3
  matched keywords: value

    Block 1  [1:46 → 2:08]
      I will say, brother, when the precipitation was this much, , humidity, this
      much, temperature, then it rained, was precipitation, humidity, temperature,
      this much, , it did not rain, then when I will give the new value , brother,
      today's precipitation is . If this is the humidity and temperature then on
      the basis of its it will tell me that according to this value, it is not
      going to rain today, is it going to rain today, will be true or not, will it
      be a prediction, then does the machine learning and AI.

    Block 2  [6:34 → 6:44]
      like I told you guys based on precipitation humidity and temperature we were
      predicting rain yes and no if I have a lot of data like this then new I have
      the values of precipitation, humidity and temperature , so on the basis of
      that, I can find out whether there will be rain or not, or if a person has
      some parameters, I have health parameters,


  [ml_dl_taxonomy]  failure_mode=taxonomy  hits=1
  matched keywords: machine learning is

    Block 1  [1:02 → 1:16]
      You want and this thing may seem a little bad but I would say save your
      career want to save your career What is machine learning Machine learning is
      the process of to train an algorithm on data What does this mean You have a
      lot of data Let us say 3 billion data points You have and now you


  SUMMARY for v4_ml_dl_hi:
    backprop_gradient              → 4 hits, 3 blocks
    attention_mechanism            → 3 hits, 2 blocks
    ml_dl_taxonomy                 → 1 hits, 1 blocks

======================================================================
END — Use this file to pick segments for Step 3 annotation